---
id: 15
title: What's the difference between == and === ?
slug: what-is-the-difference-between-equality-comparisons
tags:
  - equality comparisons
editLink: https://github.com/sakhnyuk/jsiq/blob/master/questions/theory/javascript/15.md
original: https://dev.to/macmacky/70-javascript-interview-questions-5gfi
---

# What's the difference between `==` and `===` ??

The difference between `==` (**abstract equality**) and `===` (**strict equality**) is that the `==` compares by value after coercion and `===` compares by value and type without coercion.

Let's dig deeper on the `==`. So first let's talk about _coercion_.

_coercion_ is the process of converting a value to another type. As in this case, the `==` **does** implicit coercion. The `==` has some conditions to perform before comparing the two values.

Suppose we have to compare `x == y` values.

1. If `x` and `y` have same type. Then compare them with the `===` operator.
2. If `x` is `null` and y is undefined then return true.
3. If `x` is `undefined` and y is null then return true.
4. If `x` is type `number` and y is type string Then return x == toNumber(y).
5. If `x` is type `string` and y is type number Then return toNumber(x) == y.
6. If `x` is type `boolean` Then return toNumber(x) == y.
7. If `y` is type `boolean` Then return x == toNumber(y).
8. If `x` is either `string`, `symbol` or `number` and `y` is type `object` Then return x == toPrimitive(y).
9. If `x` is either `object` and `x` is either `string`, `symbol` Then return `toPrimitive(x) == y`.
10. Return `false`.

**Note**: toPrimitive uses first the valueOf method then the toString method in objects to get the primitive value of that object.

Let's have examples.

| x                 | y         | x == y |
| ----------------- | --------- | ------ |
| 5                 | 5         | `true` |
| 1                 | '1'       | `true` |
| null              | undefined | `true` |
| 0                 | false     | `true` |
| '1,2'             | [1,2]     | `true` |
| '[object Object]' | {}        | `true` |

These examples all return `true`.

The _first_ example goes to **condition one** because `x` and `y` have the same type and value.

The _second_ example goes to **condition four** `y` is converted to a `number` before comparing.

The _third_ example goes to **condition two**.

The _fourth_ example goes to **condition seven** because `y` is `boolean`.

The _fifth_ example goes to **condition eight**. The array is converted to a `string` using the `toString()` method which returns `1,2`.

The _last_ example goes to **condition ten**. The object is converted to a `string` using the `toString()` method which returns `[object Object]`.

| x                 | y         | x === y |
| ----------------- | --------- | ------- |
| 5                 | 5         | `true`  |
| 1                 | '1'       | `false` |
| null              | undefined | `false` |
| 0                 | false     | `false` |
| '1,2'             | [1,2]     | `false` |
| '[object Object]' | {}        | `false` |
