---
id: 19
title: What is Hoisting?
slug: what-is-hoisting
tags:
  - hoisting
editLink: https://github.com/sakhnyuk/jsiq/blob/master/questions/theory/javascript/19.md
original: https://dev.to/macmacky/70-javascript-interview-questions-5gfi
---

# What is Hoisting?

**Hoisting** is the term used to describe the moving of variables and functions to the top of their (global or function) scope on where we define that variable or function.

Ok to understand **Hoisting**, I have to explain the _execution context_. The **Execution Context** is the "environment of code" that is currently executing. The **Execution Context** has two phases compilation and execution.

**Compilation** - in this phase it gets all the function declarations and hoists them up to the top of their scope so we can reference them later and gets all _variables declaration_ (declare with the var keyword) and also hoists them up and give them a default value of undefined.

**Execution** - in this phase it assigns values to the variables hoisted earlier and it executes or invokes functions (methods in objects).

**Note**: only **function declarations** and **variables** declared with the **var** keyword are hoisted not **function expressions** or **arrow functions**, **let** and **const** keywords.

Ok, suppose we have an example code in the global scope below.

```javascript
console.log(y);
y = 1;
console.log(y);
console.log(greet('Mark'));

function greet(name) {
  return 'Hello ' + name + '!';
}

var y;
```

This code logs `undefined`, `1`, `Hello Mark!` respectively.

So the compilation phase would look like this.

```javascript
function greet(name) {
  return 'Hello ' + name + '!';
}

var y; //implicit "undefined" assignment

//waiting for "compilation" phase to finish

//then start "execution" phase
/*
console.log(y);
y = 1;
console.log(y);
console.log(greet("Mark"));
*/
```

for example purposes, I commented on the assignment of variable and function call.

After the compilation phase finishes it starts the execution phase invoking methods and assigns values to variables.

```javascript
function greet(name) {
  return 'Hello ' + name + '!';
}

var y;

//start "execution" phase

console.log(y);
y = 1;
console.log(y);
console.log(greet('Mark'));
```
