---
id: 26
title: What is an IIFE, what is the use of it?
slug: what-is-an-iife-what-is-the-use-of-it
tags:
  - iife
  - function
editLink: https://github.com/sakhnyuk/jsiq/blob/master/questions/theory/javascript/26.md
original: https://dev.to/macmacky/70-javascript-interview-questions-5gfi
---

# What is an IIFE, what is the use of it?

An **IIFE** or **Immediately Invoked Function Expression** is a function that is gonna get invoked or executed after its creation or declaration. The syntax for creating IIFE is that we wrap the `function (){}` inside a parentheses `()` or the Grouping Operator to treat the function as an expression and after that we invoke it with another parentheses `()`. So an IIFE looks like this `(function(){})()`.

```javascript
(function () {})();

(function () {})();

(function named(params) {})();

(() => {})();

(function (global) {})(window);

const utility = (function () {
  return {
    //utilities
  };
})();
```

These examples are all valid IIFE. The second to the last example shows we can pass arguments to an IIFE function. The last example shows that we can save the result of the IIFE to a variable so we can reference it later.

The best use of IIFE is making initialization setup functionalities and to avoid naming collisions with other variables in the global scope or polluting the global namespace. Let's have an example.

```html
<script src="https://cdnurl.com/somelibrary.js"></script>
```

Suppose we have a link to a library `somelibrary.js` that exposes some global functions that we use can in our code but this library has two methods that we don't use `createGraph` and `drawGraph` because these methods have bugs in them. And we want to implement our own `createGraph` and `drawGraph` methods.

- One way of solving this is by changing the structure of our scripts.

```html
<script src="https://cdnurl.com/somelibrary.js"></script>
<script>
  function createGraph() {
    // createGraph logic here
  }
  function drawGraph() {
    // drawGraph logic here
  }
</script>
```

When we use this solution we are overriding those two methods that the library gives us.

- Another way of solving this is by changing the name of our own helper functions.

```html
<script src="https://cdnurl.com/somelibrary.js"></script>
<script>
  function myCreateGraph() {
    // createGraph logic here
  }
  function myDrawGraph() {
    // drawGraph logic here
  }
</script>
```

When we use this solution we will also change those function calls to the new function names.

- Another way is using an **IIFE**.

```html
<script src="https://cdnurl.com/somelibrary.js"></script>
<script>
  const graphUtility = (function () {
    function createGraph() {
      // createGraph logic here
    }
    function drawGraph() {
      // drawGraph logic here
    }
    return {
      createGraph,
      drawGraph,
    };
  })();
</script>
```

In this solution, we are making a utility variable that is the result of **IIFE** which returns an object that contains two methods `createGraph` and `drawGraph`.

Another problem that **IIFE** solves is in this example.

```javascript
var li = document.querySelectorAll('.list-group > li');
for (var i = 0, len = li.length; i < len; i++) {
  li[i].addEventListener('click', function (e) {
    console.log(i);
  });
}
```

Suppose we have a `ul` element with a class of list-group and it has 5 `li` child elements. And we want to `console.log` the value of `i` when we click an individual `li` element. But the behavior we want in this code does not work. Instead, it logs 5 in any click on an `li` element. The problem we're having is due to how Closures work. Closures are simply the ability of functions to remember the references of variables on its current scope, on its parent function scope and in the global scope. When we declare variables using the `var` keyword in the global scope, obviously we are making a global variable `i`. So when we click an `li` element it logs 5 because that is the value of `i` when we reference it later in the callback function.

- One solution to this is an IIFE.

```javascript
var li = document.querySelectorAll('.list-group > li');
for (var i = 0, len = li.length; i < len; i++) {
  (function (currentIndex) {
    li[currentIndex].addEventListener('click', function (e) {
      console.log(currentIndex);
    });
  })(i);
}
```

This solution works because of the reason that the **IIFE** creates a new scope for every iteration and we capture the value of `i` and pass it into the `currentIndex` parameter so the value of `currentIndex` is different for every iteration when we invoke the **IIFE**.
