---
id: 152
title: What are the differences of various versions of Angular?
slug: what-are-the-differences-of-various-versions-of-angular
tags:
  - angular
editLink: https://github.com/sakhnyuk/jsiq/blob/master/questions/theory/angular/152.md
original: https://github.com/sudheerj/angular-interview-questions
---

# What are the differences of various versions of Angular?

There are different versions of Angular framework. Let's see the features of all the various versions,

1. **Angular 1:**

- Angular 1 (AngularJS) is the first angular framework released in the year 2010.
- AngularJS is not built for mobile devices.
- It is based on controllers with MVC architecture.

2. **Angular 2:**

- Angular 2 was released in the year 2016. Angular 2 is a complete rewrite of Angular1 version.
- The performance issues that Angular 1 version had has been addressed in Angular 2 version.
- Angular 2 is built from scratch for mobile devices unlike Angular 1 version.
- Angular 2 is components based.

3. **Angular 3:**

- The following are the different package versions in Angular 2:
  - @angular/core v2.3.0
  - @angular/compiler v2.3.0
  - @angular/http v2.3.0
  - @angular/router v3.3.0
- The router package is already versioned 3 so to avoid confusion switched to Angular 4 version and skipped 3 version.

4. **Angular 4:**

- The compiler generated code file size in AOT mode is very much reduced.
- With Angular 4 the production bundles size is reduced by hundreds of KB’s.
- Animation features are removed from angular/core and formed as a separate package.
- Supports Typescript 2.1 and 2.2.
- Angular Universal
- New HttpClient

5. **Angular 5:**

- Angular 5 makes angular faster. It improved the loading time and execution time.
- Shipped with new build optimizer.
- Supports Typescript 2.5.
- Service Worker

6. **Angular 6:**

- It is released in May 2018.
- Includes Angular Command Line Interface (CLI), Component Development KIT (CDK), Angular Material Package, Angular Elements.
- Service Worker bug fixes.
- i18n
- Experimental mode for Ivy.
- RxJS 6.0
- Tree Shaking

7. **Angular 7:**

- It is released in October 2018.
- TypeScript 3.1
- RxJS 6.3
- New Angular CLI
- CLI Prompts capability provide an ability to ask questions to the user before they run. It is like interactive dialog between the user and the CLI
- With the improved CLI Prompts capability, it helps developers to make the decision. New ng commands ask users for routing and CSS styles types(SCSS) and ng add @angular/material asks for themes and gestures or animations.

8. **Angular 8:**
   - It is released in May 2019.
   - TypeScript 3.4
9. **Angular 9:**
   - It is released in February 2020.
   - TypeScript 3.7
   - Ivy enabled by default
10. **Angular 10:**
    - It is released in June 2020.
    - TypeScript 3.9
    - TSlib 2.0